.nh
.TH "SFTPGO-RESETPROVIDER" "1" "Mar 2026" "SFTPGo 2.7.99-dev" "SFTPGo Manual"

.SH NAME
sftpgo-resetprovider - Reset the configured provider, any data will be lost


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsftpgo resetprovider [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
This command reads the data provider connection details from the specified
configuration file and resets the provider by deleting all data and schemas.
This command is not supported for the memory provider.

.PP
Please take a look at the usage below to customize the options.


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config-dir\fP="."
	Location of the config dir. This directory
is used as the base for files with a relative
path, e.g. the private keys for the SFTP
server or the database file if you use a
file-based data provider.
The configuration file, if not explicitly set,
is looked for in this dir. We support reading
from JSON, TOML, YAML, HCL, envfile and Java
properties config files. The default config
file name is "sftpgo" and therefore
"sftpgo.json", "sftpgo.yaml" and so on are
searched.
This flag can be set using SFTPGO_CONFIG_DIR
env var too.

.PP
\fB--config-file\fP=""
	Path to SFTPGo configuration file.
This flag explicitly defines the path, name
and extension of the config file. If must be
an absolute path or a path relative to the
configuration directory. The specified file
name must have a supported extension (JSON,
YAML, TOML, HCL or Java properties).
This flag can be set using SFTPGO_CONFIG_FILE
env var too.

.PP
\fB--force\fP[=false]
	reset the provider without asking for confirmation

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for resetprovider


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsftpgo(1)\fP
