.nh
.TH "SFTPGO-SERVE" "1" "Mar 2026" "SFTPGo 2.7.99-dev" "SFTPGo Manual"

.SH NAME
sftpgo-serve - Start the SFTPGo service


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsftpgo serve [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
To start the SFTPGo with the default values for the command line flags simply
use:

.PP
$ sftpgo serve

.PP
Please take a look at the usage below to customize the startup options


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config-dir\fP="."
	Location of the config dir. This directory
is used as the base for files with a relative
path, e.g. the private keys for the SFTP
server or the database file if you use a
file-based data provider.
The configuration file, if not explicitly set,
is looked for in this dir. We support reading
from JSON, TOML, YAML, HCL, envfile and Java
properties config files. The default config
file name is "sftpgo" and therefore
"sftpgo.json", "sftpgo.yaml" and so on are
searched.
This flag can be set using SFTPGO_CONFIG_DIR
env var too.

.PP
\fB--config-file\fP=""
	Path to SFTPGo configuration file.
This flag explicitly defines the path, name
and extension of the config file. If must be
an absolute path or a path relative to the
configuration directory. The specified file
name must have a supported extension (JSON,
YAML, TOML, HCL or Java properties).
This flag can be set using SFTPGO_CONFIG_FILE
env var too.

.PP
\fB--grace-time\fP=0
	Graceful shutdown is an option to initiate a
shutdown without abrupt cancellation of the
currently ongoing client-initiated transfer
sessions.
This grace time defines the number of seconds
allowed for existing transfers to get
completed before shutting down.
A graceful shutdown is triggered by an
interrupt signal.
This flag can be set using SFTPGO_GRACE_TIME env
var too. 0 means disabled. (default 0)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for serve

.PP
\fB--loaddata-clean\fP[=false]
	Determine if the loaddata-from file should
be removed after a successful load. This flag
can be set using SFTPGO_LOADDATA_CLEAN env var
too. (default "false")

.PP
\fB--loaddata-from\fP=""
	Load users and folders from this file.
The file must be specified as absolute path
and it must contain a backup obtained using
the "dumpdata" REST API or compatible content.
This flag can be set using SFTPGO_LOADDATA_FROM
env var too.

.PP
\fB--loaddata-mode\fP=1
	Restore mode for data to load:
  0 - new users are added, existing users are
      updated
  1 - New users are added, existing users are
	  not modified
This flag can be set using SFTPGO_LOADDATA_MODE
env var too.

.PP
\fB--loaddata-scan\fP=0
	Quota scan mode after data load:
  0 - no quota scan
  1 - scan quota
  2 - scan quota if the user has quota restrictions
This flag can be set using SFTPGO_LOADDATA_QUOTA_SCAN
env var too.
(default 0)

.PP
\fB-z\fP, \fB--log-compress\fP[=false]
	Determine if the rotated log files
should be compressed using gzip. This flag can
be set using SFTPGO_LOG_COMPRESS env var too.
It is unused if log-file-path is empty.

.PP
\fB-l\fP, \fB--log-file-path\fP="sftpgo.log"
	Location for the log file. Leave empty to write
logs to the standard output. This flag can be
set using SFTPGO_LOG_FILE_PATH env var too.

.PP
\fB--log-level\fP="debug"
	Set the log level. Supported values:

.PP
debug, info, warn, error.

.PP
This flag can be set
using SFTPGO_LOG_LEVEL env var too.

.PP
\fB-a\fP, \fB--log-max-age\fP=28
	Maximum number of days to retain old log files.
This flag can be set using SFTPGO_LOG_MAX_AGE env
var too. It is unused if log-file-path is empty.

.PP
\fB-b\fP, \fB--log-max-backups\fP=5
	Maximum number of old log files to retain.
This flag can be set using SFTPGO_LOG_MAX_BACKUPS
env var too. It is unused if log-file-path is
empty.

.PP
\fB-s\fP, \fB--log-max-size\fP=10
	Maximum size in megabytes of the log file
before it gets rotated. This flag can be set
using SFTPGO_LOG_MAX_SIZE env var too. It is
unused if log-file-path is empty.

.PP
\fB--log-utc-time\fP[=false]
	Use UTC time for logging. This flag can be set
using SFTPGO_LOG_UTC_TIME env var too.


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsftpgo(1)\fP
