.nh
.TH "SFTPGO-PORTABLE" "1" "Mar 2026" "SFTPGo 2.7.99-dev" "SFTPGo Manual"

.SH NAME
sftpgo-portable - Serve a single directory/account


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsftpgo portable [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
To serve the current working directory with auto generated credentials simply
use:

.PP
$ sftpgo portable

.PP
Please take a look at the usage below to customize the serving parameters


.SH OPTIONS
\fB--allowed-patterns\fP=[]
	Allowed file patterns case insensitive.
The format is:
/dir::pattern1,pattern2.
For example: "/somedir::*.jpg,a*b?.png"

.PP
\fB--az-access-tier\fP=""
	Leave empty to use the default
container setting

.PP
\fB--az-account-key\fP=""

.PP
\fB--az-account-name\fP=""

.PP
\fB--az-container\fP=""

.PP
\fB--az-download-concurrency\fP=5
	How many parts are downloaded in
parallel

.PP
\fB--az-download-part-size\fP=5
	The buffer size for multipart downloads
(MB)

.PP
\fB--az-endpoint\fP=""
	Leave empty to use the default:
"blob.core.windows.net"

.PP
\fB--az-key-prefix\fP=""
	Allows to restrict access to the
virtual folder identified by this
prefix and its contents

.PP
\fB--az-sas-url\fP=""
	Shared access signature URL

.PP
\fB--az-upload-concurrency\fP=5
	How many parts are uploaded in
parallel

.PP
\fB--az-upload-part-size\fP=5
	The buffer size for multipart uploads
(MB)

.PP
\fB--az-use-emulator\fP[=false]

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config-dir\fP="."
	Location of the config dir. This directory
is used as the base for files with a relative
path, e.g. the private keys for the SFTP
server or the database file if you use a
file-based data provider.
The configuration file, if not explicitly set,
is looked for in this dir. We support reading
from JSON, TOML, YAML, HCL, envfile and Java
properties config files. The default config
file name is "sftpgo" and therefore
"sftpgo.json", "sftpgo.yaml" and so on are
searched.
This flag can be set using SFTPGO_CONFIG_DIR
env var too.

.PP
\fB--config-file\fP=""
	Path to SFTPGo configuration file.
This flag explicitly defines the path, name
and extension of the config file. If must be
an absolute path or a path relative to the
configuration directory. The specified file
name must have a supported extension (JSON,
YAML, TOML, HCL or Java properties).
This flag can be set using SFTPGO_CONFIG_FILE
env var too.

.PP
\fB--crypto-passphrase\fP=""
	Passphrase for encryption/decryption

.PP
\fB--denied-patterns\fP=[]
	Denied file patterns case insensitive.
The format is:
/dir::pattern1,pattern2.
For example: "/somedir::*.jpg,a*b?.png"

.PP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--directory\fP="."
	Path to the directory to serve.
This can be an absolute path or a path
relative to the current directory

.PP
\fB-f\fP, \fB--fs-provider\fP="osfs"
	osfs => local filesystem (legacy value: 0)
s3fs => AWS S3 compatible (legacy: 1)
gcsfs => Google Cloud Storage (legacy: 2)
azblobfs => Azure Blob Storage (legacy: 3)
cryptfs => Encrypted local filesystem (legacy: 4)
sftpfs => SFTP (legacy: 5)

.PP
\fB--ftpd-cert\fP=""
	Path to the certificate file for FTPS

.PP
\fB--ftpd-key\fP=""
	Path to the key file for FTPS

.PP
\fB--ftpd-port\fP=-1
	0 means a random unprivileged port,
< 0 disabled

.PP
\fB--gcs-automatic-credentials\fP=1
	0 means explicit credentials using
a JSON credentials file, 1 automatic

.PP
\fB--gcs-bucket\fP=""

.PP
\fB--gcs-credentials-file\fP=""
	Google Cloud Storage JSON credentials
file

.PP
\fB--gcs-key-prefix\fP=""
	Allows to restrict access to the
virtual folder identified by this
prefix and its contents

.PP
\fB--gcs-storage-class\fP=""

.PP
\fB--grace-time\fP=0
	This grace time defines the number of
seconds allowed for existing transfers
to get completed before shutting down.
A graceful shutdown is triggered by an
interrupt signal.

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for portable

.PP
\fB--httpd-cert\fP=""
	Path to the certificate file for WebClient
over HTTPS

.PP
\fB--httpd-key\fP=""
	Path to the key file for WebClient over
HTTPS

.PP
\fB--httpd-port\fP=-1
	0 means a random unprivileged port,
< 0 disabled

.PP
\fB-l\fP, \fB--log-file-path\fP=""
	Leave empty to disable logging

.PP
\fB--log-level\fP="debug"
	Set the log level.
Supported values:

.PP
debug, info, warn, error.

.PP
\fB--log-utc-time\fP[=false]
	Use UTC time for logging

.PP
\fB-p\fP, \fB--password\fP=""
	Leave empty to use an auto generated
value

.PP
\fB--password-file\fP=""
	Read the password from the specified
file path. Leave empty to use an auto
generated value

.PP
\fB-g\fP, \fB--permissions\fP=[list,download]
	User's permissions. "*" means any
permission

.PP
\fB-k\fP, \fB--public-key\fP=[]

.PP
\fB--s3-access-key\fP=""

.PP
\fB--s3-access-secret\fP=""

.PP
\fB--s3-acl\fP=""

.PP
\fB--s3-bucket\fP=""

.PP
\fB--s3-endpoint\fP=""

.PP
\fB--s3-force-path-style\fP[=false]
	Force path style bucket URL

.PP
\fB--s3-key-prefix\fP=""
	Allows to restrict access to the
virtual folder identified by this
prefix and its contents

.PP
\fB--s3-region\fP=""

.PP
\fB--s3-role-arn\fP=""

.PP
\fB--s3-skip-tls-verify\fP[=false]
	If enabled the S3 client accepts any TLS
certificate presented by the server and
any host name in that certificate.
In this mode, TLS is susceptible to
man-in-the-middle attacks.
This should be used only for testing.

.PP
\fB--s3-storage-class\fP=""

.PP
\fB--s3-upload-concurrency\fP=2
	How many parts are uploaded in
parallel

.PP
\fB--s3-upload-part-size\fP=5
	The buffer size for multipart uploads
(MB)

.PP
\fB--sftp-buffer-size\fP=0
	The size of the buffer (in MB) to use
for transfers. By enabling buffering,
the reads and writes, from/to the
remote SFTP server, are split in
multiple concurrent requests and this
allows data to be transferred at a
faster rate, over high latency networks,
by overlapping round-trip times

.PP
\fB--sftp-disable-concurrent-reads\fP[=false]
	Concurrent reads are safe to use and
disabling them will degrade performance.
Disable for read once servers

.PP
\fB--sftp-endpoint\fP=""
	SFTP endpoint as host:port for SFTP
provider

.PP
\fB--sftp-fingerprints\fP=[]
	SFTP fingerprints to verify remote host
key for SFTP provider

.PP
\fB--sftp-key-path\fP=""
	SFTP private key path for SFTP provider

.PP
\fB--sftp-password\fP=""
	SFTP password for SFTP provider

.PP
\fB--sftp-prefix\fP=""
	SFTP prefix allows restrict all
operations to a given path within the
remote SFTP server

.PP
\fB--sftp-username\fP=""
	SFTP user for SFTP provider

.PP
\fB-s\fP, \fB--sftpd-port\fP=0
	0 means a random unprivileged port,
< 0 disabled

.PP
\fB--ssh-commands\fP=[md5sum,sha1sum,sha256sum,cd,pwd,scp]
	SSH commands to enable.
"*" means any supported SSH command
including scp

.PP
\fB--start-directory\fP="/"
	Alternate start directory.
This is a virtual path not a filesystem
path

.PP
\fB-u\fP, \fB--username\fP=""
	Leave empty to use an auto generated
value

.PP
\fB--webdav-cert\fP=""
	Path to the certificate file for WebDAV
over HTTPS

.PP
\fB--webdav-key\fP=""
	Path to the key file for WebDAV over
HTTPS

.PP
\fB--webdav-port\fP=-1
	0 means a random unprivileged port,
< 0 disabled


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsftpgo(1)\fP
